# 2.0

## Overview

 - Omnipay 2.x compatible (requires Omnipay 2.4 or higher)
 - Deprecated old config API in favor of a more flexible config structure ([#105](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-omnipay/pull/105))
 - Deprecated snake_case static methods (transition to PSR-2) ([#104](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-omnipay/pull/104))
 - Implemented services for all common omnipay methods: *Purchase*, *authorize*, *capture*, *refund*, *void*.
 - Services return a `ServiceResponse` and not a `GatewayResponse`. This change was mainly done to avoid confusion with Omnipay
 - UI Components such as the Payment Admin and Gridfield actions have been moved to a separate module.
 - Implemented support for asynchronous status notifications from payment providers.
 - Unit-Test coverage greatly increased.

## Upgrading

### Gateways in Omnipay 2.0

Compared to the 1.x version, Omnipay 2.0 doesn't bundle *any* gateways. These have to be installed separately. If you've used `PayPal_Express` and the `Manual` Gateway before, you would upgrade your installation like this:

```sh
composer require silverstripe/silverstripe-omnipay ~2.0
composer require omnipay/paypal
composer require omnipay/manual
```

The `omnipay/common` package will be installed as a dependency of `silverstripe-omnipay`, but all required gateways have to be installed manually.

### Configuration API

2.0 introduces a new (more flexible) config API. When your payment configuration in 1.x looked like this:

```yaml
Payment:
  allowed_gateways:
    - 'PayPal_Express'
    - 'Manual'
  parameters:
    PayPal_Express:
      username: 'example.username.test'
      password: 'txjjllae802325'
      signature: 'wk32hkimhacsdfa'
```

It should be restructured like this to be compatible with 2.0 (the old format will still work, but raise deprecation noices):

```yaml
Payment:
  allowed_gateways:
    - 'PayPal_Express'
    - 'Manual'

GatewayInfo:
  PayPal_Express:
    parameters:
      username: 'example.username.test'
      password: 'txjjllae802325'
      signature: 'wk32hkimhacsdfa'
```

There are a lot of new configuration options, which are documented here: https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-omnipay/tree/2.0#configuration

### Services

In 1.x only the *purchase* and *refund* services were properly implemented. With the 2.0 release, all common gateway methods such as *purchase*, *authorize*, *capture*, *refund* and *void* are available.

Initiating a purchase in 1.x:

```php
$payment = Payment::create()->init("PxPayGateway", 100, "NZD");
$response = PurchaseService::create($payment)
    ->setReturnUrl($this->Link('complete')."/".$donation->ID)
    ->setCancelUrl($this->Link()."?message=payment cancelled")
    ->purchase($form->getData());
$response->redirect();
```

Doing the same in 2.0:

```php
$payment = Payment::create()->init("PxPayGateway", 100, "NZD")
    ->setSuccessUrl($this->Link('complete/' . $donation->ID))
    ->setFailureUrl($this->Link()."?message=payment cancelled");

$response = ServiceFactory::create()
    ->getService($payment, ServiceFactory::INTENT_PURCHASE)
    ->initiate($form->getData());

return $response->redirectOrRespond();
```

It's almost the same as it was in 1.x. The most notable differences:

 - Success and Failure (Cancel) URLs are set on `Payment` and not on the Service.
 - Services are now instantiated using the `ServiceFactory`. This makes substitution of Services much easier than before. [Documentation](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-omnipay/tree/2.0#the-payment-services-and-service-factory)
 - Services now all follow the same pattern (implementing `instantiate` and `complete` methods). So it's now possible to return different Services, depending on Gateway configuration (eg. when wanting to make a payment, the ServiceFactory might return an `AuthorizeService` or `PurchaseService`)

### GatewayResponse becomes ServiceResponse

In 1.x, a Service would return a `GatewayResponse`, which was a thin wrapper around the response classes returned by Omnipay gateways. The `GatewayResponse` class has been removed completely and was superseded by `ServiceResponse`. This was done to avoid confusion with Omnipay core-classes and because a response from a service doesn't automatically have to be a response from the payment gateway! Sometimes the Service can determine success or failure without even having to run through the payment-gateway.


All service implementations now return a `ServiceResponse` with their `initiate` and `complete` methods. 

If you didn't develop custom payment services for 1.x, the only change to your application would be to use `$response->redirectOrRespond()` instead of `$response->redirect()`

### Namespaces

All classes that don't inherit from `DataObject` are now namespaced with `SilverStripe\Omnipay`

| Previous | New  
| -------- | ---- 
| PaymentGatewayController | SilverStripe\Omnipay\PaymentGatewayController
| GatewayInfo | SilverStripe\Omnipay\GatewayInfo
| GatewayFieldsFactory | SilverStripe\Omnipay\GatewayFieldsFactory
| PaymentDevelopmentAdmin | SilverStripe\Omnipay\Admin\PaymentDevelopmentAdmin
| PaymentService | SilverStripe\Omnipay\Service\PaymentService
| PurchaseService | SilverStripe\Omnipay\Service\PurchaseService
| RefundService | SilverStripe\Omnipay\Service\RefundService
| VoidService | SilverStripe\Omnipay\Service\VoidService
| AuthorizeCaptureService | SilverStripe\Omnipay\Service\AuthorizeService, SilverStripe\Omnipay\Service\CaptureService
| GatewayResponse | *Superseded by:* SilverStripe\Omnipay\Service\ServiceResponse

### PaymentAdmin is gone?

UI components have been removed from this module and added to a separate [module](https://packagist.org/packages/bummzack/silverstripe-omnipay-ui). The payment UI components can be added by installing:

```sh
composer require bummzack/silverstripe-omnipay-ui
```


## Changelog

 * Added namespace to GatewayFieldsFactory. Allow `null` value for the Gateway. Added unit-tests.
 * Remove UI components and suggest external UI components module.
 * Implemented distinction between "partial" and "multiple" partial payments (for capture and refunds). Changed how excess payments are stored. Updated documentation and unit-tests.
 * Added permissions for refund/capture and void. Added translation keys. Updated unit-tests.
 * Implemented support for partial payments. Module now also supports:  - partial refunds  - partial capture  - captures that exceed authorized amount
 * No longer use PaymentMessages to store/retrieve Transaction-Reference and success- and failure URLs. These parameters are now stored on the Payment itself. Setting return- and cancel-Url on services is now deprecated. Refactored payment-services a bit. Updated services and unit-tests.
 * Fix and improve output of `PaymentDevelopmentAdmin`. Disable payment file-logging for unit-tests.
 * Added unit-tests for Payable. Added unit-tests for the Payment GridFieldActions Exclude deprecated methods from code-coverage.
 * Updated language file. Stripped out the Gateways and Message translations. These would only add unnecessary burdens to translators. Added project to transifex. Added deprecation notice when using `Payment.Gatewayname` for translations. Added Unit-Test to check this behavior. Added documentation file for translations.
 * Improve translation keys. Rename them to CamelCase (where applicable) and remove redundant translations. Move Gateway names to their own translation group (Gateway).
 * Some minor formatting changes
 * Make payment title locale-aware through a title-template. Added unit-tests to cover different title-scenarios.
 * Use the correct code-quality and coverage badges.
 * Converted to PSR-2 using php-cs-fixer
 * Added script to upload code-coverage to scrutinizer. Updated .travis.yml
 * Fix travis/scrutinizer coverage report.
 * Updated documentation. Added information about gateway naming. "Manual" Gateway is no longer a default setting (updated Docs, GatewayInfo and Unit-Test). Removed testing against SilverStripe master branch, as this interferes with the stricter version constraint in composer.json (modules standard).
 * Added changelog. Added information about versions. Added License. Moved organization from burnbright to silverstripe. Fix framework requirement in composer.json (Module standards!)
 * Fix issue where an offsite-payment form would return but payment was already marked complete due to async notification. Added unit-test to check for above issue. Added helper method to detect pending payments on `Payable`
 * Implemented all supported Omnipay 2.x gateway services: Purchase, Authorize, Capture, Void, Refund. Implemented support for gateways that confirm success via asynchronous notifications. Introduced namespaces for all classes that aren't DataObjects. Introduced a factory to create payment services. Added gridfield actions to enable capture, refund and void of payments via CMS.
 * Typo in composer
 * Add LICENSE
 * Update to SilverStripe org name
 * Deprecate the old config API. This means Payment should only configure the `allowed_gateways`. Gateway configuration should go into `GatewayInfo`.
 * Deprecate snake-case static methods.
 * Added configuration option Payment.token_key for Braintree
 * Added support for using token instead of card, Added hook for updating data sent to omnipay
 * Moved the isOffsite check to allow better overriding in cases where the gateway is not offsite
 * Added standard .gitattributes file
 * Fixing Test to be gateway title agnostic (as it will otherwise fail with custom translations).
 * Add an *en* locale file for translations. Include all the official Omnipay 2.x gateways and CreditCard Brands.
 * Added standard .editorconfig file
 * Added omnipay/dummy to require-dev
 * Fixed version constraints for require-dev
 * Changed composer requirements to use omnipay/common and updated documentation
 * Fix unit tests broken by Omnipay upgrade
 * Update dependency for Omnipay
 * Hopefully fixes Travis build
 * Remove `Created` field from payment-admin filter dialogue.
 * Provide an accessor for translated status value. Updated search-context and summary_fields to include translated values as well.
 * Fix YAML indentation
 * Update .travis.yml
 * Test against 3.2
 * Testing this against master and 3.2
 * NEW: Extension point for extra data to complete purchases
 * Added note to README on Payable
 * Create CONTRIBUTING.md
 * ENHANCEMENT Add ability to manage several manual payments modules.
 * BUGFIX fixed Payment filtering bug in ModelAdmin
 * Update docs/en/index.md
